README.md, before:

```
      ██████╗ █████╗ ██████╗ ██╗███╗   ██╗
     ██╔════╝██╔══██╗██╔══██╗██║████╗  ██║
     ██║     ███████║██████╔╝╚═╝██╔██╗ ██║
     ██║     ██╔══██║██╔═══╝    ██║╚██╗██║
     ╚██████╗██║  ██║██║        ██║ ╚████║
      ╚═════╝╚═╝  ╚═╝╚═╝        ╚═╝  ╚═══╝
 ██████╗ ██████╗  ██████╗ ████████╗ ██████╗
 ██╔══██╗██╔══██╗██╔═══██╗╚══██╔══╝██╔═══██╗
 ██████╔╝██████╔╝██║   ██║   ██║   ██║   ██║
 ██╔═══╝ ██╔══██╗██║   ██║   ██║   ██║   ██║
 ██║     ██║  ██║╚██████╔╝   ██║   ╚██████╔╝
 ╚═╝     ╚═╝  ╚═╝ ╚═════╝    ╚═╝    ╚═════╝

                         infinitely
                           faster!

-- TypeScript Edition

```

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/jdiaz5513/capnp-ts.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/jdiaz5513/capnp-ts) [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/jdiaz5513/capnp-ts/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/jdiaz5513/capnp-ts)

This is a TypeScript implementation of the [Cap'n Proto](https://capnproto.org) serialization protocol. Start with the [Cap'n Proto Introduction](https://capnproto.org/index.html) for more detailed information on what this is about.

> WARNING: THIS IS PRE-ALPHA SOFTWARE. USE AT YOUR OWN RISK. AUTHORS ARE NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR LOSS OF LIMB, LIFE, SANITY, OR RETIREMENT FUNDS DUE TO USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

- [Packages](#packages)
- [Project Status](#project-status)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
  - [Usage with JavaScript](#usage-with-javascript)
  - [Usage in a Web Browser](#usage-in-a-web-browser)
- [Building](#building)
  - [Initial Setup](#initial-setup)
  - [Build Tasks](#build-tasks)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Team](#team)

## Packages

This repository is managed as a monorepo composed of separate packages.

| Package | Version | Dependencies |
|:--------|:--------|:-------------|
| [`capnp-ts`](/packages/capnp-ts) | [![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/capnp-ts.svg?maxAge=2592000)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/capnp-ts) | [![Dependency Status](https://david-dm.org/jdiaz5513/capnp-ts.svg?path=packages/capnp-ts)](https://david-dm.org/jdiaz5513/capnp-ts?path=packages/capnp-ts) |
| [`capnpc-ts`](/packages/capnpc-ts) | [![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/capnpc-ts.svg?maxAge=2592000)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/capnpc-ts) | [![Dependency Status](https://david-dm.org/jdiaz5513/capnpc-ts.svg?path=packages/capnpc-ts)](https://david-dm.org/jdiaz5513/capnpc-ts?path=packages/capnpc-ts) |
| [`capnpc-js`](/packages/capnpc-js) | [![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/capnpc-js.svg?maxAge=2592000)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/capnpc-js) | [![Dependency Status](https://david-dm.org/jdiaz5513/capnpc-js.svg?path=packages/capnpc-js)](https://david-dm.org/jdiaz5513/capnpc-js?path=packages/capnpc-js) |

- `capnp-ts` is the core Cap'n Proto library for Typescript. It is a required import for all compiled schema files, and the starting point for reading/writing a Cap'n Proto message.
- `capnpc-ts` is the schema compiler plugin for TypeScript. It is intended to be invoked by the [`capnp`](https://capnproto.org/capnp-tool.html) tool.
- `capnpc-js` is the schema compiler plugin for JavaScript. It is intended to be invoked by the [`capnp`](https://capnproto.org/capnp-tool.html) tool.

## Project Status

This project is under active **pre-alpha** development.

> Until version `1.x.x` lands expect that the top level API **will** change.

- Serialization: **mostly implemented**
- Schema Compiler: **partially implemented**
- [RPC Level 1](https://capnproto.org/rpc.html#protocol-features): **not implemented**
- [RPC Level 2](https://capnproto.org/rpc.html#protocol-features): **not implemented**
- [RPC Level 3](https://capnproto.org/rpc.html#protocol-features): **not implemented**
- [RPC Level 4](https://capnproto.org/rpc.html#protocol-features): **not implemented**

## Installation

Grab the latest library version from npm:

```shell
npm install --save capnp-ts
```

You may want the schema compiler as well (can also be installed locally):

```shell
npm install -g capnpc-ts # For TypeScript
# OR
npm install -g capnpc-js # For JavaScript
```

The schema compiler is a [Cap'n Proto plugin](https://capnproto.org/otherlang.html#how-to-write-compiler-plugins) and requires the `capnpc` binary in order to do anything useful; follow the [Cap'n Proto installation instructions](https://capnproto.org/install.html) to install it on your system.

## Usage

Run the following to compile a schema file into TypeScript source code:

```shell
capnpc -ots path/to/myschema.capnp
```

Or for JavaScript:
```shell
capnpc -ojs path/to/myschema.capnp
```

Running that command will create a file named `path/to/myschema.capnp.ts` (or `.js`).

> This assumes `capnpc-ts` was installed globally and is available from `$PATH`. If not, change the `-o` option to something like `-onode_modules/.bin/capnpc-ts` so it points to your local `capnpc-ts` install.

To read a message, do something like the following:

```typescript
import * as capnp from 'capnp-ts';

import {MyStruct} from './myschema.capnp';

export function loadMessage(buffer: ArrayBuffer): MyStruct {

  const message = capnp.Message.fromArrayBuffer(buffer);

  return message.getRoot(MyStruct);

}
```

### Usage with JavaScript

```javascript
const capnp = require('capnp-ts');

const MyStruct = require('./myschema.capnp').MyStruct;

function loadMessage(buffer) {

  const message = capnp.Message.fromArrayBuffer(buffer);

  return message.getRoot(MyStruct);

}
```

### Usage in a Web Browser

Using a tool like [webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) one should be able to bundle the library and compiled schema files for use in a web browser.

A deliberate effort was made to avoid using nodejs specific features (at the expense of performance) to maintain compatibility with browser environments.

**Note that this library has not yet been tested in a web browser.**

> In the future a special nodejs version of the library may be released to take advantage of `Buffer` which gives access to unsafe malloc style allocation (as opposed to calloc style allocation in `ArrayBuffer` which always zeroes out the memory).

## Building

Before building the source you will need a few prerequisites:

- [**nodejs**](https://nodejs.org/en/) (latest LTS or 8.x.x is recommended)
- [**yarn**](https://yarnpkg.com/en/)

> [nvm](https://github.com/creationix/nvm) is highly recommended for managing multiple nodejs versions.

### Initial Setup

Run `yarn install` to set up the **node_modules** directories for the monorepo and each package.

### Build Tasks

The following package scripts are available for build tasks.

Using npm:

```shell
npm run build
```

Or (preferred) using [gulp-cli](https://github.com/gulpjs/gulp-cli):

```shell
npm install --global gulp-cli # If you don't already have gulp-cli
gulp build
```

---

#### `build`

Compiles the typescript sources and test files.

#### `benchmark`

Runs all available benchmarks in `packages/capnp-ts/test/benchmark`.

#### `capnp-compile`

Compiles all `.capnp` files into TypeScript source.

#### `ci`

Used by Travis for continuous integration testing; do not run locally.

#### `coverage`

Generates a coverage report and opens it in a new web browser tab.

#### `lint`

Runs `tslint` and prints out any linter violations.

#### `test`

Runs the test suite and prints out a human-readable test result.

#### `watch`

Runs the test suite in a loop, recompiling any changes to the source as it is saved to disk.

## Testing

Tests are written using [node-tap](http://www.node-tap.org/) and are located in the `test/` subdirectory for each package. The goal for this repository is to reach 100% coverage on critical code. Exceptions may be made (e.g. for benchmark code) using special istanbul comments:

```javascript
/* istanbul ignore next */    // ignore the next statement/block
/* istanbul ignore if */      // ignore an if branch
/* istanbul ignore else */    // ignore an else branch
```

## Debugging

Some debug trace functionality is provided by the [debug](https://www.npmjs.com/package/debug) library.

To see trace messages in nodejs, export the following environment variable:

```bash
export DEBUG='capnp*'
```

When running in a web browser, use `localStorage` to enable debug output:

```javascript
localStorage.debug = 'capnp*';
```

Trace messages can get rather noisy, so tweak the `DEBUG` variable as you see fit.

All messages also have a handy `.dump()` method that returns a hex dump of the first 8 KiB for each segment in the message:

```
> console.log(message.dump());

================
Segment #0
================

=== buffer[64] ===
00000000: 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 ················
00000010: 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 ················
00000020: 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 ················
00000030: 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 ················
```

## Team

Check out the [Humans Colophon](/HUMANS.md) for contributor credits.

## License

[MIT](/LICENSE.md)

Commit message:

improve instructions for schema compilation

README.md, after:

```
      ██████╗ █████╗ ██████╗ ██╗███╗   ██╗
     ██╔════╝██╔══██╗██╔══██╗██║████╗  ██║
     ██║     ███████║██████╔╝╚═╝██╔██╗ ██║
     ██║     ██╔══██║██╔═══╝    ██║╚██╗██║
     ╚██████╗██║  ██║██║        ██║ ╚████║
      ╚═════╝╚═╝  ╚═╝╚═╝        ╚═╝  ╚═══╝
 ██████╗ ██████╗  ██████╗ ████████╗ ██████╗
 ██╔══██╗██╔══██╗██╔═══██╗╚══██╔══╝██╔═══██╗
 ██████╔╝██████╔╝██║   ██║   ██║   ██║   ██║
 ██╔═══╝ ██╔══██╗██║   ██║   ██║   ██║   ██║
 ██║     ██║  ██║╚██████╔╝   ██║   ╚██████╔╝
 ╚═╝     ╚═╝  ╚═╝ ╚═════╝    ╚═╝    ╚═════╝

                         infinitely
                           faster!

-- TypeScript Edition

```

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/jdiaz5513/capnp-ts.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/jdiaz5513/capnp-ts) [![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/jdiaz5513/capnp-ts/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/jdiaz5513/capnp-ts)

This is a TypeScript implementation of the [Cap'n Proto](https://capnproto.org) serialization protocol. Start with the [Cap'n Proto Introduction](https://capnproto.org/index.html) for more detailed information on what this is about.

> WARNING: THIS IS PRE-ALPHA SOFTWARE. USE AT YOUR OWN RISK. AUTHORS ARE NOT RESPONSIBLE FOR LOSS OF LIMB, LIFE, SANITY, OR RETIREMENT FUNDS DUE TO USE OF THIS SOFTWARE.

- [Packages](#packages)
- [Project Status](#project-status)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
  - [Compiling Schema Files](#compiling-schema-files)
  - [Reading ]
  - [Usage with JavaScript](#usage-with-javascript)
  - [Usage in a Web Browser](#usage-in-a-web-browser)
- [Building](#building)
  - [Initial Setup](#initial-setup)
  - [Build Tasks](#build-tasks)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Team](#team)

## Packages

This repository is managed as a monorepo composed of separate packages.

| Package | Version | Dependencies |
|:--------|:--------|:-------------|
| [`capnp-ts`](/packages/capnp-ts) | [![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/capnp-ts.svg?maxAge=2592000)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/capnp-ts) | [![Dependency Status](https://david-dm.org/jdiaz5513/capnp-ts.svg?path=packages/capnp-ts)](https://david-dm.org/jdiaz5513/capnp-ts?path=packages/capnp-ts) |
| [`capnpc-ts`](/packages/capnpc-ts) | [![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/capnpc-ts.svg?maxAge=2592000)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/capnpc-ts) | [![Dependency Status](https://david-dm.org/jdiaz5513/capnpc-ts.svg?path=packages/capnpc-ts)](https://david-dm.org/jdiaz5513/capnpc-ts?path=packages/capnpc-ts) |
| [`capnpc-js`](/packages/capnpc-js) | [![npm](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/capnpc-js.svg?maxAge=2592000)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/capnpc-js) | [![Dependency Status](https://david-dm.org/jdiaz5513/capnpc-js.svg?path=packages/capnpc-js)](https://david-dm.org/jdiaz5513/capnpc-js?path=packages/capnpc-js) |

- `capnp-ts` is the core Cap'n Proto library for Typescript. It is a required import for all compiled schema files, and the starting point for reading/writing a Cap'n Proto message.
- `capnpc-ts` is the schema compiler plugin for TypeScript. It is intended to be invoked by the [`capnp`](https://capnproto.org/capnp-tool.html) tool.
- `capnpc-js` is the schema compiler plugin for JavaScript. It is intended to be invoked by the [`capnp`](https://capnproto.org/capnp-tool.html) tool.

## Project Status

This project is under active **pre-alpha** development.

> Until version `1.x.x` lands expect that the top level API **will** change.

- Serialization: **mostly implemented**
- Schema Compiler: **partially implemented**
- [RPC Level 1](https://capnproto.org/rpc.html#protocol-features): **not implemented**
- [RPC Level 2](https://capnproto.org/rpc.html#protocol-features): **not implemented**
- [RPC Level 3](https://capnproto.org/rpc.html#protocol-features): **not implemented**
- [RPC Level 4](https://capnproto.org/rpc.html#protocol-features): **not implemented**

## Installation

Grab the latest library version from npm:

```shell
npm install --save capnp-ts
```

You will need the schema compiler as well (global installation recommended):

```shell
npm install -g capnpc-ts # For TypeScript
# OR
npm install -g capnpc-js # For JavaScript
```

The schema compiler is a [Cap'n Proto plugin](https://capnproto.org/otherlang.html#how-to-write-compiler-plugins) and requires the `capnpc` binary in order to do anything useful; follow the [Cap'n Proto installation instructions](https://capnproto.org/install.html) to install it on your system.

## Usage

### Compiling Schema Files

Run the following to compile a schema file into TypeScript source code:

```shell
capnpc -o ts path/to/myschema.capnp
```

Or for JavaScript:
```shell
capnpc -o js path/to/myschema.capnp
```

Running that command will create a file named `path/to/myschema.capnp.ts` (or `.js`).

> These instructions assume `capnpc-ts` was installed globally and is available from `$PATH`. If not, change the `-o` option to something like `-o node_modules/.bin/capnpc-ts` or `-o capnp-ts/packages/capnpc-ts/bin/capnpc-ts.js` so it points to your local `capnpc-ts` install.

To write the compiled source to a different directory:
```shell
capnpc -o ts:/tmp/some-dir/ path/to/myschema.capnp
```

That will generate a file at `/tmp/some-dir/path/to/myschema.capnp.ts`.

### Reading Messages

To read a message, do something like the following:

```typescript
import * as capnp from 'capnp-ts';

import {MyStruct} from './myschema.capnp';

export function loadMessage(buffer: ArrayBuffer): MyStruct {

  const message = capnp.Message.fromArrayBuffer(buffer);

  return message.getRoot(MyStruct);

}
```

### Usage with JavaScript

JavaScript usage is nearly identical to the TypeScript version, except you won't get all of the type safety and code completion goodness in your editor.

Also, the name `capnp-js` is already reserved on npm from a [previous attempt](https://www.npmjs.com/package/capnp-js) so you'll be importing the exact same module.

```javascript
const capnp = require('capnp-ts');

const MyStruct = require('./myschema.capnp').MyStruct;

function loadMessage(buffer) {

  const message = capnp.Message.fromArrayBuffer(buffer);

  return message.getRoot(MyStruct);

}
```

A larger example is located in the js-examples directory.

### Usage in a Web Browser

Using a tool like [webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) one should be able to bundle the library and compiled schema files for use in a web browser.

A deliberate effort was made to avoid using nodejs specific features (at the expense of performance) to maintain compatibility with browser environments.

**Note that this library has not yet been tested in a web browser.**

> In the future a special nodejs version of the library may be released to take advantage of `Buffer` which gives access to unsafe malloc style allocation (as opposed to calloc style allocation in `ArrayBuffer` which always zeroes out the memory).

## Building

Before building the source you will need a few prerequisites:

- [**nodejs**](https://nodejs.org/en/) (latest LTS or 8.x.x is recommended)
- [**yarn**](https://yarnpkg.com/en/)

> [nvm](https://github.com/creationix/nvm) is highly recommended for managing multiple nodejs versions.

### Initial Setup

Run `yarn install` to set up the **node_modules** directories for the monorepo and each package.

### Build Tasks

The following package scripts are available for build tasks.

Using npm:

```shell
npm run build
```

Or (preferred) using [gulp-cli](https://github.com/gulpjs/gulp-cli):

```shell
npm install --global gulp-cli # If you don't already have gulp-cli
gulp build
```

---

#### `build`

Compiles the typescript sources and test files.

#### `benchmark`

Runs all available benchmarks in `packages/capnp-ts/test/benchmark`.

#### `capnp-compile`

Compiles all `.capnp` files into TypeScript source.

#### `ci`

Used by Travis for continuous integration testing; do not run locally.

#### `coverage`

Generates a coverage report and opens it in a new web browser tab.

#### `lint`

Runs `tslint` and prints out any linter violations.

#### `test`

Runs the test suite and prints out a human-readable test result.

#### `watch`

Runs the test suite in a loop, recompiling any changes to the source as it is saved to disk.

## Testing

Tests are written using [node-tap](http://www.node-tap.org/) and are located in the `test/` subdirectory for each package. The goal for this repository is to reach 100% coverage on critical code. Exceptions may be made (e.g. for benchmark code) using special istanbul comments:

```javascript
/* istanbul ignore next */    // ignore the next statement/block
/* istanbul ignore if */      // ignore an if branch
/* istanbul ignore else */    // ignore an else branch
```

## Debugging

Some debug trace functionality is provided by the [debug](https://www.npmjs.com/package/debug) library.

To see trace messages in nodejs, export the following environment variable:

```bash
export DEBUG='capnp*'
```

When running in a web browser, use `localStorage` to enable debug output:

```javascript
localStorage.debug = 'capnp*';
```

Trace messages can get rather noisy, so tweak the `DEBUG` variable as you see fit.

All messages also have a handy `.dump()` method that returns a hex dump of the first 8 KiB for each segment in the message:

```
> console.log(message.dump());

================
Segment #0
================

=== buffer[64] ===
00000000: 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 ················
00000010: 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 ················
00000020: 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 ················
00000030: 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00  00 00 00 00 00 00 00 00 ················
```

## Team

Check out the [Humans Colophon](/HUMANS.md) for contributor credits.

## License

[MIT](/LICENSE.md)
